Thanks. Hi. Can I start it? Okay. My name is Laszlo Nemet and the presentation, the title
of the presentation, Fun Project by Design. The short summary of my presentation, I don't
know if all LibreOffice development can be full of flow, but I can show the best moment
of my recent developments. So, my motto from Goethe, mehr Licht, more light, and in the
end I hope I can give more light about LibreOffice development or fun around LibreOffice development.
First one, I work it on improving the spelling dictionaries or spell checkers, two in the
last few weeks and months, and here there is a Wikipedia one-liner I use to extend the
spelling dictionaries, pushing the word text of the Wikipedia, for example, the Hungarian
in my case, to a UNIX pipeline and ranking their entries of the dictionary in the case
of the Hungarian, there was 400,000 entries with a very huge variant of the different
localization of the Wikipedia and counting their backlinks, and after that we have a data
about the frequency of the entries and we can filter the unknown words for the spelling
dictionary. Here is the one-liner. I was so excited to show, to see the Wikipedia example
from the download from the dump Wikipedia.org that this is five billion characters in a
single PC, as 50,000 books, the text content of this single file, and it was able to create
a frequency database immediately. I called my son that, check this, this is the prototype
of the one billion dollar algorithm of Google, the page rank. Wow, why, so wonderful. He
said that it's a little late, but no problem because it's no late for me. I know the UNIX
pipeline, the history of the UNIX line, why so? It started with the moon landing. I know
the history of the graph, so it's related to the language analysis of the federalized
papers, the founders of the United States. There was a guy, MacMahon, a linguist working
in the Bell Laboratory, so it's a history, but it's a present, so that is why interesting
that in the liberal office development, like the OpenOffice.org was the first big office
suite built on the Solaris system, SunMicro system, developed this with big joy, and I
used the VI editor and the modification by a Dutch face-off developer, Ben Maulner,
the VI version, so it's a history, but the present, too, and this is the result related
to the Hungarian dictionary, and it seems that humans just want to have more fun because
check the most frequent new unknown words, McLaren or all musics, or soccer, football,
and car racing, et cetera, but there was, in the first, the most frequent dozen words,
there was an exception as Misfit, Nauchni, a small Ocarina village with 1,000 people,
only 1,000 people. Why? So I checked the Wikipedia, and this was the place of the Crimean astrophysical
observatory, and it is a huge number, near 3,000 links in the Wikipedia for the Nauchni,
the village, show me that it means thousands of asterite stars, galaxies, this co-ed in
this observatory in the last 100 years, so it was a nice experience. I added some other
words, not this one, to the Hungarian dictionary, for example, Higgs, the physician related
to the gravitational waves, or Thaisetarovs, because this extinct animal is the most popular
in the young age people, toddlers, so sometimes useful. The other development, the Soros language,
is a mini-language to handle a problem, that converting digits to a written form, the words
of a number, for example, Euro to French, I'm sorry for my French, but I don't want
to pronounce the French version, but I'm sure there are people here who can help me later,
and this is the history of the Soros language, it's related to the software patients, because
that was in Microsoft XMS standardization as very special Excel function, the bot text,
using converting numbers to Thai language, that was maybe Chinese suggestion in the open
formalities to create a more generalized version, a number text, but the answer from the open
office dot developer study, developer, that was defining a general purpose number, this
would be a nightmare, he had the experience, it's really a nightmare, and a few years later
I made one liner in the UNIX tool, a prototype to create something useful and mini-language
to describe the different grammar rules of the languages, and the first version within
a week or I don't know, supported the English, Thai, German, Hungarian, Italian language,
and a very special numbering system, Shuzo numbers, which in the night is still used
by the Chinese market, two lines of the numbers with the magnitude of the number, for example,
30's number is 2023, and the next line contains the 1,000 year sign, the best, the worst problem,
so it's not so far the development, that this was a spin-off of my grammar checker development
support, founded by the FSF.HU foundation, but that time with three small children without
too much money, it was a crazy idea for me to create a new development, so that is why
I asked the NNET foundation, help of the NNET foundation, and later the 1-1 development
resulted in 11 new language support in the software, and the interesting thing here,
that when I made a C++ version from this project, it was also funded by an FSF.HU foundation,
I've got help from Ekaterinatke, at that time a LibreOffice developer, and later with the
Russian developer, Maiko Gonski, from Kolabora, and now if you check the new features of
the LibreOffice, you will try to, you will check the, it's possible to select this format,
you will number formats in the dialogue windows, so useful, and this was the two characters
fixed, I wasn't able to fix five years ago, ago because my, related to my complexity of
my development, LibreLogo, a special language, but not only for children, I will check the
next example, this line, fix the SVG export with the special font features, open type
and graphite, graphite, so you can use, for example, Xpaves, the special generated graphics.
For the books, I improved the type setting, the paragraph line breaking algorithm, adding
the hyphenation zone of the OXMS standard, and this standard helped create more DTP like
text in LibreOffice, my plan to create something better, things for picture books, thank you
very much, this is the mascot of the LibreLogo development I made last night, the idea is
quite new, new, and solving a thousand years problem that, what is this, log or the crocodile,
both of them, log, the LibreLogo crocodile, so 400 bucks fixed in the last four and half
year for by me, using special methods to mix the Unix programming language or the approach
to finding the freedom in these developments, so you like bug fixing, you can see new features,
a language, for example, 200 years, and the famous Hungarian poet, Shantel Petriti, made
a very short poem, you can read later, and this poem is from Goethe, and related to Tesla,
who made the biggest innovation in Budapest, thanks to Goethe, this is the end of my development,
and you can check the numbers and the downloader, thank you very much.